README.md, before:

## Bible Chat

<p align="center">
    Bible Chat is a faith focused ai product built on the bones of vercel/ai-chat!
</p>

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://chat-sdk.dev"><strong>Read Docs</strong></a> ·
  <a href="#features"><strong>Features</strong></a> ·
  <a href="#model-providers"><strong>Model Providers</strong></a> ·
  <a href="#deploy-your-own"><strong>Deploy Your Own</strong></a> ·
  <a href="#running-locally"><strong>Running locally</strong></a>
</p>
<br/>

## Features

- [Next.js](https://nextjs.org) App Router
  - Advanced routing for seamless navigation and performance
  - React Server Components (RSCs) and Server Actions for server-side rendering and increased performance
- [AI SDK](https://sdk.vercel.ai/docs)
  - Unified API for generating text, structured objects, and tool calls with LLMs
  - Hooks for building dynamic chat and generative user interfaces
  - Supports Gemini (default), OpenAI, Fireworks, and other model providers
- [shadcn/ui](https://ui.shadcn.com)
  - Styling with [Tailwind CSS](https://tailwindcss.com)
  - Component primitives from [Radix UI](https://radix-ui.com) for accessibility and flexibility
- Data Persistence
  - [Neon Serverless Postgres](https://vercel.com/marketplace/neon) for saving chat history and user data
  - [Vercel Blob](https://vercel.com/storage/blob) for efficient file storage
- [Auth.js](https://authjs.dev)
  - Simple and secure authentication

## Model Providers

This template ships with [Gemini](https://gemini.google.com/app) as the default chat model. However, with the [AI SDK](https://sdk.vercel.ai/docs), you can switch LLM providers to [OpenAI](https://openai.com), [Anthropic](https://anthropic.com), [Cohere](https://cohere.com/), and [many more](https://sdk.vercel.ai/providers/ai-sdk-providers) with just a few lines of code.

## Running locally

You will need to use the environment variables [defined in `.env.example`](.env.example) to run Next.js AI Chatbot. It's recommended you use [Vercel Environment Variables](https://vercel.com/docs/projects/environment-variables) for this, but a `.env` file is all that is necessary.

> Note: You should not commit your `.env` file or it will expose secrets that will allow others to control access to your various AI and authentication provider accounts.

## We will be getting our own environement variables so we can run this separate from Vercel upon launch

## feel free to ignore these steps and do the steps below instead

1. Install Vercel CLI: `npm i -g vercel`
2. Link local instance with Vercel and GitHub accounts (creates `.vercel` directory): `vercel link`
3. Download your environment variables: `vercel env pull`

Once we have .env variables sorted these steps will successfully run our app locally

```bash
docker-compose build
docker-compose up
```

Your app template should now be running on [localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000).

Commit message:

updated .env example and readme

README.md, after:

## Bible Chat

<p align="center">
    Bible Chat is a faith focused ai product built on the bones of vercel/ai-chat!
</p>

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://chat-sdk.dev"><strong>Read Docs</strong></a> ·
  <a href="#features"><strong>Features</strong></a> ·
  <a href="#model-providers"><strong>Model Providers</strong></a> ·
  <a href="#deploy-your-own"><strong>Deploy Your Own</strong></a> ·
  <a href="#running-locally"><strong>Running locally</strong></a>
</p>
<br/>

## Features

- [Next.js](https://nextjs.org) App Router
  - Advanced routing for seamless navigation and performance
  - React Server Components (RSCs) and Server Actions for server-side rendering and increased performance
- [AI SDK](https://sdk.vercel.ai/docs)
  - Unified API for generating text, structured objects, and tool calls with LLMs
  - Hooks for building dynamic chat and generative user interfaces
  - Supports Gemini (default), OpenAI, Fireworks, and other model providers
- [shadcn/ui](https://ui.shadcn.com)
  - Styling with [Tailwind CSS](https://tailwindcss.com)
  - Component primitives from [Radix UI](https://radix-ui.com) for accessibility and flexibility
- Data Persistence
  - [Neon Serverless Postgres](https://vercel.com/marketplace/neon) for saving chat history and user data
  - [Vercel Blob](https://vercel.com/storage/blob) for efficient file storage
- [Auth.js](https://authjs.dev)
  - Simple and secure authentication

## Model Providers

This template ships with [Gemini](https://gemini.google.com/app) as the default chat model. However, with the [AI SDK](https://sdk.vercel.ai/docs), you can switch LLM providers to [OpenAI](https://openai.com), [Anthropic](https://anthropic.com), [Cohere](https://cohere.com/), and [many more](https://sdk.vercel.ai/providers/ai-sdk-providers) with just a few lines of code.

## Running locally

You will need to use the environment variables [defined in `.env.example`](.env.example) to run Next.js AI Chatbot. It's recommended you use [Vercel Environment Variables](https://vercel.com/docs/projects/environment-variables) for this, but a `.env` file is all that is necessary.

> Note: You should not commit your `.env` file or it will expose secrets that will allow others to control access to your various AI and authentication provider accounts.

## We will be getting our own environement variables so we can run this separate from Vercel upon launch

1. Create a .env file

2. Copy over .env.example to your .env (which won't be committed to github)

3. go to get auth secret key, and google ai key from the links

Once we have .env variables sorted these steps will successfully run our app locally
If this doesn't work try to `npm install` before running docker

```bash
docker-compose build
docker-compose up
```

Your app template should now be running on [localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000).
